The Academy of Arts and Sciences features a Wellness Center, two full-time academic counselors and a full-time college counselor.
Wellness Parent Night! Wednesday, 2/12/14, 7-9:30 pm, in the Library. Topic: Teen Sexuality The Wellness Center will host a Parent Night 2/12/14 in the Library, 7-9:30 pm. Topic Teen Sexuality. Our featured speaker is E.B. Troast. This is her bio: EB Troast is the Education Manager for Planned Parenthood Shasta Pacific. ... Continue Posted by: Robert Francoeur Published: 1/15/14
skip Home About Us Counseling Academics Parents Library Students Athletics Course Catalog Go About Us Mission / Vision Staff / Administration FAQ Advisory Athletics Wellness Center School Tours Bell Schedule School Calendar Who We Work With Fall Finals Schedule Wellness Center AAS Wellness & Counseling Team WHAT IS THE WELLNESS CENTER PROGRAM? The goal of the Wellness Program is to provide support for students so they may succeed academically and be healthy in body, mind and spirit. To accomplish this, the Wellness Program will coordinate and provide non-judgmental, student-focused health, mental health, and substance abuse services and programs for students on campus. WORDS OF WELLNESS NEWSLETTERS WOW, December 2011 WOW, August 2011 WHO IS ON THE WELLNESS TEAM? Direct line at 415-695-5755 Robert Francoeur, Wellness Coordinator: Extension 3022 Maria Tobo, Wellness Counselor: Extension 3304 Genevieve Evenhouse, Wellness Nurse: Extension 3306 Cynthia Cevallos, Community Healthy Outreach Worker: Extension 3305 In addition to the above staff, we will coordinate with counselors, case managers, group facilitators, and interns from community based organizations (CBOs) and universities who will provide support services for students on a weekly basis. WHEN IS THE WELLNESS CENTER OPEN? The Wellness Center will be open M-F 8-4 by appointment and for Student Drop-In Hours during lunch and after school. We make sure that all students have a pass to the Wellness Center. We have tons of health information and resources - stop by! WHAT TYPES OF SERVICES ARE PROVIDED FOR STUDENTS? Students will be able to participate in a variety of services including mental health and substance abuse counseling, nursing services, case management, support/empowerment groups, conflict mediation, referrals to community agencies and more. The Wellness Center is committed to student’s academic achievement and educational outcomes as well as their physical and emotional well being. The type and content of Wellness services to be provided to youth are CONFIDENTIAL! WHAT KINDS OF ISSUES WILL WELLNESS CENTER ADDRESS? Violence and Abuse Stress Depression and Suicide Sexual Orientation/Gender Questions Resource and Referral Sexual Harrassment Issues Pregnancy and Birth Control Chronic Illness Drug and Alcohol Abuse Family Issues Defiant, Impulsive, or Acting Out Behaviors Sexual Health Peer Relationships Cultural Adjustment and Identity Issues Smoking Cessation Staff Needs HOW DO I REFER A STUDENT TO THE WELLNESS PROGRAM? Parents/Guardians can refer students by calling us at 415-695-5755 or coming in to talk in person in Rooms 302, 312 & 316. Students can also self-refer or refer a friend to the Wellness Center. MEET THE WELLNESS CENTER TEAM. WHO ARE WE? WHAT ARE OUR ROLES? Robert Francoeur, MS, LMFT, PPSC Wellness Coordinator Collaborates with school site personnel to develop, plan and implement Wellness Initiative Programs and complete ongoing program documentation, reporting and evaluation. Serves as liaison between school site staff and community based organizations and students/ families Promotes school wide health focus implementation and promotion Works with Community Based Organizations, DCYF, DPH and city-wide committees to maintain site based services and referrals Cynthia Cevallos, BS Community Health Outreach Worker Establishes and maintains collaborative partnerships with Community Based Organizations Provides student services and assistance Provides linkage to and follow-up with students/ families on referrals to onsite and outside Community Based Agencies Facilitates support groups, outreach and educational workshops in collaboration with outside credentialed staff Maria Tobo, MS, MFT RAMS Behavioral Health Counselor Provides culturally appropriate and sensitive school-based mental health and substance abuse services in the forms of individual, group, and family treatment Provides outreach and education on mental health and substance abuse services and issues to students, families of students, community members, other professionals, school staff and in community settings as deemed necessary Genevieve Evenhouse, RN, MSN, WHNP-BC Nurse Implements comprehensive/coordinated school health programs Assists with the development and coordination of student support services including on site support groups and mentoring programs Provides guidance and support for implementation of medication administration protocols, first aid procedures, Student Emergency/ Medical Information Card, Emergency Care Plan and universal precaution protocols Identifies and manages children with chronic illnesses Conducts mandatory screenings (e.g. vision, hearing, and scoliosis) and other mandates Please come see us in Rooms 302, 312 & 316 or call 695-5755 © 2013-2014 Academy of Arts and Sciences 555 Portola Dr, San Francisco, California 94131 415-695-5700 Phone District Logo San Francisco Unified School District 555 Franklin St., San Francisco, CA 94103 School Loop Powered by School Loop This Website is Free! User AgreementPrivacy Notice FAQ Login Translation RSS FeedsSite Map
Wellness Center Wellness101.jpg Questions & Answers (jump to the full document here or use the links below to jump to that topic) · What is the Lowell Wellness Program? · What kinds of issues does Wellness address? · How are students referred to the Lowell Wellness Program? · Who is on the Wellness Team? · How does Wellness address school wide health and mental health issues? · When is the Wellness Program open? · How often will students miss classes to utilize Wellness services? · Can parents use Wellness services? · Questions? Concerns? Contact Carol Chao Herring, Wellness Coordinator, 415-242-2575, room 118
skip Lowell High School Home Home Our School Departments Resources Library Tech Committee SSC Go Wellness 101 Wellness101.jpg What is the Lowell Wellness Program? The Lowell Wellness Program coordinates and provides health, mental health and substance abuse services and programs for Lowell students on campus. What kinds of issues does Wellness address? Wellness addresses a wide variety of issues such as: * Violence and Abuse * Stress/Worry * Depression & Suicide * Sexual Orientation/Gender Questions * Resource & Referral * Sexual Harassment Issues * Coping with Academic Stress * Chronic Illness * Drug & Alcohol Abuse * Family Issues * Defiant , Impulsive, or Acting Out Behaviors * Sexual Health * Peer Relationships * Pregnancy & Birth Control * Cultural Adjustment & Identity Issues * Smoking Cessation What types of services are provided for students? Students can participate in a variety of services including mental health and substance abuse counseling, nursing services, case management, support/empowerment groups, conflict mediation, referrals to community agencies and more. The type and content of Wellnessservices provided to youth are CONFIDENTIAL! How are students referred to the Lowell Wellness Program? Students are referred by school administrators, teachers and counselors by completing a Wellness Referral Form. Parents/ Guardians can refer students by stopping by the Wellness Center in Bungalow T14, calling 415/242-2575 or emailing chaoc@sfusd.edu. Students can also self-refer in the Wellness Program Drop-In Center during their free mods and after school. * If you have a crisis situation, do not complete a referral form – contact a Wellness Program provider immediately for support! Who is on the Wellness Team? *Carol Chao Herring, Wellness Coordinator, T14 (x3020) *Kin Leung, RAMS therapist, T14 (x3060) *Lauren Reyes, Community Health Outreach Worker, T14 (x3030) *Loong Kwok, RAMS therapist, T14 *Maryann Rainey, Wellness Nurse, Rm 129 (x3173) *Natasha Jaipaul &Susan Matsumura, SIT Interns, T14 * In addition to the above staff, we coordinate counselors, case managers, group facilitators, and interns, from community based organizations (CBOs) who provide support services for students at Lowell. How does Wellness address school wide health and mental health issues? The Wellness Program coordinates monthly health awareness events, school wide education and prevention activities focusing on a variety of topics such as substance use, HIV/AIDS, violence prevention, etc. We also offer classroom presentations and specialized groups - let us know if you would like us to come to your classroom to present about health and/or mental health topics! When is the Wellness Program open? The Wellness Program is open M-F from 8:30am to 4pm. Students are welcome at the Wellness Center during free mods and by appointment. Student Drop-In Hours are in T14 for counseling services or Room 129 for nursing services. Additional drop-in hours are held during 5th Block on Thursdays and 4th Block on Fridays in Room 106. How often will students miss classes to utilize Wellness services? Students usually participate in Wellness Program services one hour a week. Wellness Program providers schedule appointments during free mods. If no free mods are available, providers work with teachers to alternate class periods for appointments and/or group sessions if needed so that students do not miss the same class weekly. If a student is falling behind, please call Carol (x3020) or Lauren (x3030). Teachers always have the right to say NO. Wellness is committed to student’s academic achievement and educational outcomes. Can parents use Wellness services? Although Wellness services are funded for youth, we also have health and mental health resources available for families! If you would like support please come talk to us – we are here for you! Questions? Concerns? Contact Carol Chao Herring, Wellness Coordinator, 415-242-2575, T14 © 2013-2014 Lowell High School 1101 Eucalyptus Dr, San Francisco, CA 94132 415-759-2730 Phone | 415-759-2742 Fax District Logo San Francisco Unified School District 555 Franklin St, San Francisco, CA 94102 415-241-6000 Phone School Loop Powered by School Loop This Website is Free! User AgreementPrivacy Notice FAQ Login Translation RSS FeedsSite Map
