Alvarado Elementary School 625 Douglass St., San Francisco, CA 94114 Skip to primary content Skip to secondary content Home About » School Life » News » SchoolPages PTA/SSC » Giving AUCTION We Work to Combat Bullying Alvarado does not have more problems with bullying than any other school, but we take the issue seriously when it arises. We host workshops, educate our students, parents and teachers, and provide resources for all. Click on the links below for more information. Anti-Bullying Policy We help children to be included and to feel safe and empowered. We teach children to include others in work and play, and we teach by example: Staff and parents model kindness, respect, empathy and cooperation with students and each other. Please read our school policy on bullying in English or in Spanish. We also have a more easily understood policy that is appropriate for children. For clarity, we also have a flowchart that illustrates how the school responds to reported incidents of bullying. Resources for Parents There are many books available to help parents raise empathetic children or cope with bullying. If you know of a book that is not on this list, please email the title to Morgan Benz. Martial Arts Programs Martial arts are excellent training for the mind and body. Martial arts students gain a sense of security as they learn techniques that can protect them in potentially harmful situations. Frequently Asked Questions What is bullying? Bullying occurs when a student, or group of students, attempts to take power over another student. Often bullying is repeated, where students fall into the roles of bully (the student who is bullying), bully-follower (a student who goes along with the bully), target (the student who is being bullied) and bystander (a student who sees bullying but does nothing to stop it). The main ways in which bullying happens are: Physical bullying: when a student uses physical force to hurt another student by hitting, punching, pushing, pantsing, shoving, kicking, spitting, pinching, getting in their way, or holding them down. It is also bullying to interfere with another student’s belongings, to take or break their possessions, and to demand or steal money. Verbal bullying: when a student directs words at another student with the intention of putting them down or humiliating them. This includes threatening, taunting, intimidating, shouting, insulting, sarcasm, name-calling, teasing, put-downs and ridiculing. It is also verbal bullying when a student uses hostile gestures towards another student, such as making faces, staring, giving the evil eye, and eye rolling. Relational bullying: when a student influences another student’s friendships and relationships through deliberately leaving them out, spreading gossip and rumors about them, whispering, giving them the silent treatment, ostracizing or scape-goating. This also includes writing words or creating cartoons, posters or drawings about another student designed to hurt or humiliate that student. Cyber bullying: using mobile phones, text messages, e-mails, instant messaging, chatrooms, web blogs and social networking sites to bully another student in any of the ways described above. Examples of cyber bullying are sending threatening or insulting messages by phone and e-mail, posting untrue information or embarrassing pictures about another student on message boards, blogs or social networking sites such as MySpace or Facebook, using another student’s email address or IM name to send messages that make the student look bad, creating a web page devoted to putting down another student, forwarding a text-message or e-mail that was meant for your eyes only. Is bullying the same as harassment? Bullying is part of a continuum of aggression and may, at times, amount to harassment. Harassment occurs when a student is the recipient of threatening, disturbing or unwelcome behaviors because of a particular characteristic. See our anti-bullying policy for more details on how harassment is addressed. What do I do if I think my child is being bullied at school? Talk to your child’s teacher first. Classroom teachers often have great insight into the dynamics of children’s relationships. Take the first step by sharing your concerns. Your child’s teacher will talk to you about the best way to address the situation. If you have additional concerns, you can also speak with Mr. Broecker. What do I do if my child is bullying another child? The first step is the same. Talk to your child’s teacher. Classroom teachers and support staff at Alvarado are available to assist all children and their families, regardless of the role they might play in a situation involving bullying. Where can I get more information? Check out our reading list for both kids and parents. There are also a number of useful websites: For parents: http://www.stopbullying.gov A U.S. government managed website with a wealth of information. http://nobully.com The local consultancy that is currently working with Alvarado. http://www.commonsensemedia.org a useful site which gives summaries, age recommendations and reviews for books, movies, video games and more. http://www.staysafeonline.org/in-the-home/protect-your-children Good tips on how to keep your children safe online. For kids: http://kidshealth.org/kid/feeling/school/poll_bullying.html#cat20067 What else can I do? Model compassionate behavior. In order for children to learn kindness and empathy, they need to see it modeled by adults. Make sure your kids get to see you behaving in a compassionate, empathetic manner. A positive social climate is key to a school’s success in combating bullying. Volunteer at recess time. While we have seen great improvement since starting our Playworks program in 2010, the yard remains a potential hotspot for bullying. The more adults that are present, the easier it is to handle minor conflicts as they arise, before they grow into more serious, negative patterns. Limit children’s exposure to media. Talk to your children about the TV programs they watch and make sure they are age-appropriate. Monitor their online activities and teach kids how to be safe online. ©2012 Alvarado Elementary School PTA • Terms of Use and Privacy Policy
Alvarado(Elementary(School San(Francisco(Unified(School(District 625$Douglass$St.$|$San$Francisco,$CA$94114 (415)$695=5695$|$(fax)$(415)$695=5447$|$sch420@sfusd.edu © No Bully®. Copy only with permission. www.nobully.com. Alvarado Elementary School Anti-Bullying Policy If you want to be happy, practice compassion.” -Dalai Lama Our Social Vision At Alvarado we are all ethnicities, religions, orientations, abilities and backgrounds. No matter where we come from, we are one inclusive community. We celebrate our differences. We help children to be included and to feel safe and empowered. We teach children to actively include others in work and play. To teach by example, staff and parents model kindness, respect, empathy and cooperation with students and each other. Purpose of this policy In any school community, there will be occasions when students do not get along. Sometimes conflicts arise between students that they find too big or persistent to resolve by themselves. Sometimes students bully in an attempt to hurt, exclude or take power from another student. These behaviors may be motivated by hurt feelings, anger, jealousy, insecurity, attention-seeking or lack of skill in dealing with conflict. Whatever their underlying cause, bullying and unresolved conflict stand in the way of our vision. This policy is designed to guide us in how to respond to student conflict and bullying, how to learn and play together as a community and how to live by the core values of kindness, empathy, and inclusiveness contained in our social vision. Scope of this policy This policy applies to all students, parents, staff, coaches and all other adults on our campus, whether employed by the school, San Francisco Unified School District, working as contractors, or volunteers. This policy governs student behavior both on our campus, at School or SFUSD school-sponsored events, and also when students are traveling to and from school. The PEACETeam • The PEACE Team is a permanent committee to ensure the implementation of this policy, to oversee the social and emotional development of our students and to help our school live by our values of kindness and inclusiveness contained in our vision statement. PEACE stands for: PracticeEmpathy AndCaring withEveryone. • The principal appoints the team leader(s). • The team leader shall convene meetings regularly throughout the school year.Alvarado Elementary School Anti-Bullying Policy 2 How Our School Responds to Incidents of conflict Conflict occurs when two or more students disagree because each perceives the other as getting in the way of their needs, concerns or goals. Conflict becomes bullying when one of the students attempts to take power over another to resolve the conflict. When students become stuck in a persistent or disruptive conflict, but are not bullying, we bring the students together and use TALK, a quick and effective protocol, to facilitate conflict resolution. We encourage our parents to follow this protocol at home to reinforce what we teach at school. We encourage students to follow this same protocol when talking through a peer conflict without the help of an adult. Here is the protocol we use for TALKing it through. TALK PROTOCOL Agree to talk it through without putdowns and interruptions. Tell what happened and how you feel. Each of the two students takes a turn to say what happened and to name the emotions that they feel, while the other student listens. Ask for what you need. Each student takes a turn to make specific requests for what they need from the other. Look for solutions. The students brainstorm together what might solve the problem for both of them. This is known as looking for a “win-win” solution. Try to find at least three solutions. Keep the best solution. Make an agreement and Commit to following that agreement. It aids resolution if the adult follows up with the two studentsto check that they have successfully solved the problem. If the problem has not been solved, figure out why the initial solution did not work repeat the TALK process, and look for new solutions.Alvarado Elementary School Anti-Bullying Policy 3 How Our School Responds to Incidents of Bullying We are committed to a culture where we have kindness, empathy, and inclusiveness. We see bullying and harassment as obstacles to realizing our values for how we all get along. The following part of this policy describes our roles in responding to bullying and in supporting the culture of Alvarado School. What we mean by bullying Bullying occurs when a student, or group of students, attempts to take power over another student. Often bullying is repeated, where students fall into the roles of bully (the student who is bullying), bully-follower (a student who goes along with the bully), target (the student who is being bullied) and bystander (a student who sees bullying but does nothing to stop it). The main ways in which bullying happens are: Physical bullying: when a student uses physical force to hurt another student by hitting, punching, pushing, pantsing, shoving, kicking, spitting, pinching, getting in their way, or holding them down. It is also bullying to interfere with another student’s belongings, to take or break their possessions, and to demand or steal money. Verbal bullying: when a student directs words at another student with the intention of putting them down or humiliating them. This includes threatening, taunting, intimidating, shouting, insulting, sarcasm, name-calling, teasing, put-downs and ridiculing. It is also verbal bullying when a student uses hostile gestures towards another student, such as making faces, staring, giving the evil eye, and eye rolling. Relational bullying: when a student influences another student’s friendships and relationships through deliberately leaving them out, spreading gossip and rumors about them, whispering, giving them the silent treatment, ostracizing or scape-goating. This also includes writing words or creating cartoons, posters or drawings about another student designed to hurt or humiliate that student. Cyber bullying refers to the use of mobile phones, text messages, e-mails, instant messaging, chatrooms, web blogs and social networking sites to bully another student in any of the ways described above. Examples of cyber bullying are sending threatening or insulting messages by phone and e-mail, posting untrue information or embarrassing pictures about another student on message boards, blogs or social networking sites such as MySpace or Facebook, using another student’s email address or IM name to send messages that make the student look bad, creating a web page devoted to putting down another student, forwarding a text-message or email that was meant for your eyes only. When bullying is also harassment. Bullying is part of a continuum of aggression and may, at times, amount to harassment. Harassment occurs when a student is the recipient of threatening, disturbing or unwelcome behaviors because of a particular characteristic. Sexual Harassment includes, but is not limited to, unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature. Sexual harassment can be directed toward a student under conditions such as the following: verbal, written, physical, and visual. Sexual harassment is dealt with under the sexual harassment policy that you can find at the end of this policy.
School Climate School community violence prevention grant, character education – 2nd Step, Too Good for Violence, Restorative Practices.
