skip HOME ABOUT PROGRAMS CONTACT TOOLS AVID AVID_logo.gif AVID @ APTOS AVID is currently in its second year at Aptos Middle School. There are two classes of the AVID elective, one at 7th grade and one at 8th grade. In the 7th grade elective class, AVID students are introduced to the 4 components of the AVID curriculum: Writing, Inquiry, Collaboration, and Reading. A major emphasis in the 7th grade is for students to develop inquiry and collaboration skills as students work with college students during tutorials sessions. In the 8th grade elective class, AVID students continue to develop their WICR strategies needed for high school and college, but further look at the importance of choosing the right high school and the requirements needed to apply to a college / university. Both elective classes support students in their core classes of Math, English/Language Arts, Social Studies, and Science through tutorials and various in class assignments. The AVID elective class is not a remedial or intervention class. The curriculum is rigorous and pushes students to become their own advocates in an academic setting to hone their skills in their other classes. Highlights: * Field Trips - Stanford and San Francisco State University; Washington HS and Lincoln HS; Day at Law School (UC Hastings) * Guest Speakers on Fridays * College mentors and tutors leading tutorials twice a week MISSION AVID's mission is to close the achievement gap by preparing all students for college readiness and success in a global society. WHAT IS AVID? AVID, Advancement Via Individual Determination, is a college readiness system for elementary through postsecondary that is designed to increase schoolwide learning and performance. The AVID College Readiness System (ACRS) accelerates student learning, uses research based methods of effective instruction, provides meaningful and motivational professional learning, and acts as a catalyst for systemic reform and change. RESOURCES AVID: Who, What, Where, When, Why, & How? AVID College Readiness System (ACRS) AVID Brochure CONTACT US Email Emmons, Chrissy C. Emmons, Chrissy C. Teacher Email Ferrante, Gina L. Ferrante, Gina L. Assistant Principal - Curriculum & Instruction Email Garahan, Amelia Garahan, Amelia Counselor Email Kennings, Sharon Kennings, Sharon Counselor Email Neves, Melissa Neves, Melissa Teacher Email Passmore, Casey Passmore, Casey Teacher Email Stewart, Michele R. Stewart, Michele R. Teacher © 2013-2014 Aptos Middle School 105 Aptos Avenue, San Francisco, CA 94127 (415) 469-4520 Phone | (415) 333-9038 Fax District Logo San Francisco Unified School District 555 Franklin Street, San Francisco, CA 94102 (415) 241-6000 Phone User AgreementPrivacy NoticeLogin Translation RSS FeedsSite Map
