Wellness Parent Night! Wednesday, 2/12/14, 7-9:30 pm, in the Library. Topic: Teen Sexuality The Wellness Center will host a Parent Night 2/12/14 in the Library, 7-9:30 pm. Topic Teen Sexuality. Our featured speaker is E.B. Troast. This is her bio: EB Troast is the Education Manager for Planned Parenthood Shasta Pacific. ... Continue Posted by: Robert Francoeur Published: 1/15/14
Parenting Workshops The Parents Coalition of Bay Area High Schools is hosting 4 upcoming workshops for parents: The Neurotic Parent's Guide to College Admissions Monday, Oct. 7, 7:30-9:00pm, Lick Wilmerding HS, 755 Ocean Ave, SF Top... Continue
Parent Information
Parent Information PARENT EVENTS
Parent Workshops coming soon
PARENT NIGHT / NOCHE PARA PADRES WHAT : Wellness Center, Parent Night Event, A COMMON SENSE APPROACH TO SOCIAL MEDIA
Strong parent participation and high expectations of both parents and staff help provide an enriching and engaging environment in which the children thrive.
Parental Involvement Without our parents, Alvarado would not be the school it is. We expect and encourage families to be involved in the classroom, on field trips, at events or behind the scenes.
2013-2014 Weekly Newsletters
Alvarado Elementary School 625 Douglass St., San Francisco, CA 94114 Skip to primary content Skip to secondary content Home About » School Life » News » SchoolPages PTA/SSC » Giving AUCTION Budget Questions? 2013-2014 PTA Budget 2013-2014 SSC Budget PTA Documents PTA Reimbursement Form Use this form to submit a request for reimbursement for out-of-pocket expenses. Contractor Invoice Form Contractors should use this form to submit invoices for services rendered to the Alvarado PTA. Cash Submission Form (en Español) Please use this form when submitting cash earned through events or activities to the PTA. PTA Bylaws Parent Teacher Association The Alvarado PTA works hand-in-hand with the school’s administration to organize events and programs and to raise the funds necessary to realize these activities. Through the efforts of the PTA, we have hired staff to assist with reading comprehension, literacy, math, technology, and community outreach. PTA funds are also used to offer enrichment classes in art, music and science that reinforce and augment the core curriculum. See volunteer opportunities here. Become a voting member of the PTA today! Membership must be renewed every year and costs $10 per person. Click here for more details. Questions about the Alvardo PTA? Contact presidents Steve Sacks and Sarah Monroy at president@alvaradoschool.net. Events Every year the PTA organizes many events, such as the fall family picnic, spring carnival, and our annual fundraising auction. These events build community and are fun for all involved. See what’s on tap for this year or visit the calendar for specific dates. Enrichment Programs Thanks to our parents, Alvarado is able to offer an array of enrichment programs, from art to PE to literacy support. Learn more about the committees that support these programs and find out how you can volunteer. Communications We are in the process of transitioning to a new system called SchoolPages, a secure school-wide directory and communications system. Register here so you can communicate with your classroom, sign up for snack and volunteer activities and find out what is happening in your classroom on your class page. This is a new system we have been using for less than a year, so some classrooms are less active than others. We encourage suggestions on how to make using SchoolPages even better. Questions? Comments? Please email Audrey Vernick at SchoolPages@alvaradoschool.net. Though it will eventually be replaced by a similar feature in SchoolPages, at present Alvarado’s Yahoo group is a great way to stay connected with an active group of Alvarado parents. It’s a forum for exchanging ideas and information, and for staying up-to-date on the latest school information. Learn more or sign up now! (Note: You will need to set up a Yahoo account.) The PTA also sends home a weekly newsletter. You can sign up for e-delivery or view past newsletters here. Support Our School Want to teach a club? Join a committee? Organize an event? There are dozens of volunteer opportunities at the school. If you would like to make a financial contribution to Alvarado to help us fund our wonderful events and programs, please visit the Giving section of this website. ©2012 Alvarado Elementary School PTA • Terms of Use and Privacy Policy
We provide information, communicate, are professional and honest at all times, and seek to engage parents and families in the mission of the school.
Parent Engagement ELAC, SSC, PTSA.
 Lowell High School • San Francisco WelcomeMembershipCalendarFundraisingLinksSpecial Events & ActivitiesNewsTech Survey WELCOME BACK !!! LOWELL Students, Parents and Teachers! Don't forget our next PTSA meeting Wednesday, January 8th at 7pm! Board meeting Jan 8 at 5:30 pm in the Meyer Library Online Auction now open !!! Picture Tickets available at the door Picture Lowell Beautification Day was a huge success! October 19, 2013 Many thanks to all of the students, parents and staff who participated in Beautification Day this past Saturday, October 19. Through your hard work we cleaned, trimmed, weeded, painted and generally spruced up campus. I hope that everyone had a good time and will join us for our next Beautification Day in the Spring. You rocked it. Nancy Muller on behalf of the Lowell High School PTSA Picture Picture Picture Picture "I'm excited to share with you that seven of your Cardinal softball players made grand headlines as they were part of the San Bruno Storm team that just finished up a week-long softball trip at the ASA Western "B" Nationals Championships in San Diego, CA. In fact, all seven players were crucial in helping the team capture the 2013 Championship." - Christopher Jordan 16U San Bruno Storm Manager / Head Coach Lowell Baseball wins City Championship - first since 2008, then win Transbay against Oakland Tech Picture Lowell senior Elijah Saunders barely wiped the smashed cupcake from his face following his team's 7-0 San Francisco Section championship victory over Washington on Wednesday. The right-handed pitcher and left-handed hitter just let all the sweet morsels soak in. It was tasty enough to pitch a four-hitter with eight strikeouts and lead the Cardinals to their 18th section title, but first since 2008. Also flavorful were his three doubles, including a key two-run blast down the right-field line in a four-run fourth. read on.. Lowell Ranked # 43 in the country and #8 in California, #1 among large schools in California Picture The Lowell Robotics Team Qualifies for Worlds The Lowell Robotics team, a F.I.R.S.T ( For Inspiration & Recognition of Science & Technology ) student-run competitive robotics team, attended Silicone Valley Regional ( SVR ) this past weekend at SJSU. With our alliance team, it has qualified for the F.I.R.S.T World Championship 2013 at St. Louis at the end of April. Out of 58 participating teams at SVR (many of whom have been around since the beginning of F.I.R.S.T more than 15 years ago) our robotics team was ranked as high as 6th on the 1st day of the competition, and ended the 2-day tournament with the rank of 18th as an individual team, but ranked 2nd with our alliance team at the end of semi-final. This is the second time in 2 years that the team has qualified for the F.I.R.S.T World Championship, and the team is less than 2 years old. In 2012, the Lowell Robotics team ( FRC team 4159, aka Cardinalbotics ) qualified for the World Championship through being awarded Rookie All Star. Picture CALLING ALL ARTISTS! Book to Book needs your artwork for the 2013-2014 Student Planner cover. Design should be 5.5" x 8.5", digital art must be at least 300 dpi and in .tif, .jpeg, .pdf or .psd format, and be original art. Make sure to incorporate "Lowell High School" and "2013-2014" in the design. Non-digital (hardcopy) artwork should be in vivid colors for best effect. Please contact Donna Turner (B2B Manager) at lowellb2b@gmail.com for any questions; one design per student please. Email digital submissions tolowellb2b@gmail.com, hardcopy submissions are to be dropped off in Book to Book, make sure to include your name, reg #, and email address or phone number. Winner will receive free planner, logo t-shirt, and $10 gift certificate to Book to Book. Artwork is due by Monday, April 15 at 3:30pm. Outsmart the SAT LEARN A STRATEGY FOR EVERY QUESTION YOU'LL FACE ON THE SAT "The Lowell PTSA Congratulates Cecilia Fang and Marilee Robbins for receiving Awards of Excellence in the 2012 PTA Reflections program The Magic of the Moment. Their work in Visual Arts and Photography were moved to the State Reflections competition, results to be announced. Good luck Cecilia and Marilee! Lisa Liao and Sally Ma also received Awards of Merit for their works in photography." Karen Robbins, PTSA Reflections Coordinator Picture Cecilia Fang Picture Marilee Robbins CONGRATULATIONS to LOWELL Administration, Faculty, Staff and Students on receiving the NATIONAL BLUE RIBBON DISTINCTION for the 5th time. AP JAPANESE STUDENTS WIN WORLD LANGUAGE POSTER CONTEST-Omedetoo to the talented AP Japanese students for their winning entries in the Foreign Language Association of Northern California (FLANC) 2012 “Languages are the Golden Gate to Culture” Poster Contest at San Francisco State University on Oct. 27th. Certificates and cash awards were given to Teri Estillore & Lok Lo “Most Amusing Idea,” Sally Liu & Broderick Noyes “Most Original,” Benny Chen, Tingrong Yan & Allison Zhu “Grand Prize Winner.” Returning PTSA Members - Don't forget to renew your PTSA Membership for the 2013-2014 school year. PTSA EXECUTIVE BOARD 2013-2014 We often take for granted the very things that most deserve our gratitude. ~ Cynthia Ozick Thanks to the wonderful volunteers who have stepped forward to serve on the PTSA Executive Board for the 2013-2014 school year. Lisa Pollard - President Jo Ellen Kaiser - 1st Vice President Nancy Muller - 2nd Vice President Missy Sue Mastel - Treasurer Sally Blumenfeld - Financial Secretary Kacy Chan - Secretary Cynthia Darling - Auditor James Uejio - Historian Robyn Lipsky - Correspondence Secretary How Does Lowell Compare? API - 955 for 2011 - Highest in San Francisco Unified. U.S. News & World Report - Ranked #51 Gold Medal List and #11 in California. California Distinguished School - 7 times & National Blue Ribbon School - 5 times. The Washington Post's High School Challenge - Ranked #72 which also includes private schools in their rankings. Compare with Private Schools School Lowell University Urban St. Ignatius Sacred Heart Lick-Wilmerding Tuition $ 00.00 $ 33,750 $ 34,050 $ 16,990 $ 14,900 $ 34,996 College Bound 99.6% 97 % Languages Offered 8 4 3 5 5 3 AP's offered 104 16 Subjects 14 Subjects 18 Subjects None Clubs 86 50 35 95 32 Athletics 27 Sports/32 Teams 14 Sports/Teams 17 Sports 15 Sports/66 Teams 22 Sports/45 Teams 18 Sport/ 30 Teams The following is a partial list of Colleges/Universities, which our fantastic 2013 Lowell graduates will be attending. Boston University, Brown University, Cal Poly San Luis Obispo, California Institute of Technology, Carnegie Mellon, Chico State University, City College of San Francisco, City College of San Mateo, Claremont McKenna College, Colby College, College of San Mateo, Cooper Union For the Advancement of Science and Art, Cornell University, CSU East Bay, CSU Long Beach, CSU Northridge, Dartmouth College, Dominican University of California, Drexel University, Earlham College, George Washington University, Harvard University, Harvey Mudd College, Howard University, Ithica College, Lewis & Clark University, Linfield College, Macalestor College, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, McGill University, Middlebury College, Mount Holyoke College, New York University, Northeastern University, Northwestern University, Oregon State University, Pennsylvania State University, Pratt Institute, Princeton University, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Rochester Institute of Technology, Rutgers University, Sacramento State University, San Diego State University, San Francisco Art Institute, San Francisco State University, San Jose State University, Santa Clara University, Santa Rosa Junior College, Sarah Lawrence College, School of the Art Institute of Chicago, Scripps College, Skyline College, Smith College, Sonoma State University, Southwestern University, Springfield College, St. Mary’s College of California, Stanford University, Stony Brook University, Suffolk University, Syracuse University, Tulane University, UC Berkeley, UC Davis, UC Irvine, UC Los Angeles, UC Merced, UC Riverside, UC San Diego, UC Santa Barbara, UC Santa Cruz, United States Air Force Academy, University of British Columbia, University of Chicago, University of Colorado-Boulder, University of Hawaii, University of Michigan, University of Oregon, University of Puget Sound, University of Redlands, University of San Diego, University of San Francisco, University of Pacific, University of Washington, University of Wisconsin, Vanderbilt University, Washington University in St. Louis, Wheaton College, and Yale University Picture Follow @lowellptsa Lowell High School PTSA • San Francisco
