Student Support Services SCVP, TUPE, Mentoring, Youth Outreach Worker (YOW) program addressing tobacco & alcohol prevention. HIFY is Health Initiative for Youth. Various psycho educational groups depending on student need
Parent Engagement ELAC, SSC, PTSA.
What is the Lowell Wellness Program? The Lowell Wellness Program coordinates and provides health, mental health and substance abuse services and programs for Lowell students on campus. What kinds of issues does Wellness address? Wellness addresses a wide variety of issues such as: ∗ Violence and Abuse ∗ Stress/Worry ∗ Depression & Suicide ∗ Sexual Orientation/Gender Questions ∗ Resource & Referral ∗ Sexual Harassment Issues ∗ Coping with Academic Stress ∗ Chronic Illness ∗ Drug & Alcohol Abuse ∗ Family Issues ∗ Defiant , Impulsive, or Acting Out Behaviors ∗ Sexual Health ∗ Peer Relationships ∗ Pregnancy & Birth Control ∗ Cultural Adjustment & Identity Issues ∗ Smoking Cessation  What types of services are provided for students? Students can participate in a variety of services including  mental health and substance abuse counseling, nursing services, case management, support/empowerment groups, conflict mediation, referrals to community agencies and more. The type and content of Wellness services provided to youth are CONFIDENTIAL! How are students referred to the Lowell Wellness Program? Students are referred by school administrators, teachers and counselors by completing a Wellness Referral Form. Parents/ Guardians can refer students by stopping by the Wellness Center in Bungalow T14, calling 415/242-2575 or emailing chaoc@sfusd.edu. Students can also self-refer in the Wellness Program Drop-In Center during their free mods and after school. * If you have a crisis situation, do not complete a referral form – contact a Wellness Program provider immediately for support! Who is on the Wellness Team? *Carol Chao Herring, Wellness Coordinator, T14 (x3020) *Kin Leung, RAMS therapist, T14 (x3060) *Lauren Reyes, Community Health Outreach Worker, T14 (x3030) *Loong Kwok, RAMS therapist, T14 *Maryann Rainey, Wellness Nurse, Rm 129 (x3173) *Natasha Jaipaul & Susan Matsumura, SIT Interns, T14 * In addition to the above staff, we coordinate counselors, case managers, group facilitators, and interns, from community based organizations (CBOs) who provide support services for students at Lowell. How does Wellness address school wide health and mental health issues? The Wellness Program coordinates monthly health awareness events, school wide education and prevention activities focusing on a variety of topics such as substance use, HIV/AIDS, violence prevention, etc. We also offer classroom presentations and specialized groups - let us know if you would like us to come to your classroom to present about health and/or mental health topics! When is the Wellness Program open? The Wellness Program is open M-F from 8:30am to 4pm. Students are welcome at the Wellness Center during free mods and by appointment. Student Drop-In Hours are in T14 for counseling services or Room 129 for nursing services. Additional drop-in hours are held during 5th Block on Thursdays and 4th Block on Fridays in Room 106. How often will students miss classes to utilize Wellness services? Students usually participate in Wellness Program services one hour a week. Wellness Program providers schedule appointments during free mods. If no free mods are available, providers work with teachers to alternate class periods for appointments and/or group sessions if needed so that students do not miss the same class weekly. If a student is falling behind, please call Carol (x3020) or Lauren (x3030). Teachers always have the right to say NO. Wellness is committed to student’s academic achievement and educational outcomes. Can parents use Wellness services? Although Wellness services are funded for youth, we also have health and mental health resources available for families! If you would like support please come talk to us – we are here for you!
RESPONSE TO INSTRUCTION & INTERVENTION (RTI^2) PHILOSOPHY & DEFINTION RtI2 is a systematic, data-driven approach to instruction that benefits every student.  California’s RtI2 framework, supported by national research and in accordance1 with1federal law, emphasizes effective instruction and earlier intervention for students experiencing difficulty learning to1 ensure that they are not misdiagnosed or over1identified for1 special education services due to lack of appropriate1 instruction.  For more information on RtI2, please visit the California Department of Education website at1 http://www.cde.ca.gov/ci/cr/ri/index.asp.
Aptos encourages students to achieve at the highest levels, both academically and socially. At Aptos, students feel comfortable, nurtured, and respected. They are actively and positively engaged in a safe environment. We encourage students to develop a sense of responsibility, discipline, and self-esteem. The comprehensive academic program includes General Education classes, intensive English classes for English Language Learners, Special Education programs and Gifted and Talented Education (GATE) and honors classes. Students have the opportunity to participate in elective classes that engage their creativity, encourage development of multiple intelligences, and deliver opportunities for leadership. Students can select interests such as drama, computers, arts, journalism, chorus, orchestra, band, and jazz band. The curriculum is balanced by our physical education and student support program s. Some of our other programs include student government, stage crew, Journalism, Beta Club Honor Society, Guitar Club, and Italian Club.
Student Support Program s Student assistant program (SAP) meets weekly to identify students who have additional needs. SSTs and IEPs held as needed. Two full-time counselors, a full-time nurse and a full-time LSP help to coordinate wrap around services. Partnerships with Institute provide mental health services. Intervention and tutoring for both reading and math is also available.
CARE Team, which encompasses the Student Assistance Program (SAP), Student Success Team (SST), and Student Attendance Review Team (SART). School Social Worker (formerly known as "Learning Support Provider"). Playworks Program (recess and structured play program). SOMA Family Resource Network. YMCA Embarcadero Student Counseling.￼Literacy Intervention Through Performing Arts Intervention Groups. Literacy Intervention Groups. After-schoo
SFUSD’s High School Wellness Center s will be hosting “Healthcare Sign Up” events from January 22 through Jan 30, where staff from Wellness Centers and the Department of Public Health will offer assistance to parents in accessing
Parent Involvement Dear Parents, As President of the School Site Council, I would like to personally invite you to join us for our monthly meetings. The meetings are held in the school library on the last Monday of each month at 3:45. Meetings generally finish by 4:30. Topics covered by this Parent Teacher organization include our Children's Garden, the Healthy Kid's Program, the Food Bank Donations to our school, fundraising possibilities, budgets, as well as alternatives for before school and afterschool care. In addition to joining the School Site Council, there are also volunteering opportunities throughout the school. We encourage parents and grandparents to communicate with the teachers, regarding chaperoning on field trips and participating in group activities. Classroom readers are welcome in the lower grades. The Jewish Coalition of Literacy also trains volunteers to read to students throughout the day. If you are crafty, participation in an art activity would be greatly appreciated, especially during the holidays. Once a month, the Chinatown YMCA sponsors a Family Night. This is open to all families and includes a light dinner and an activity the family will participate in together. It is a great way to spend quality time together and meet other families attending JYC Elementary School. If you have any questions or concerns, feel free to contact me through school at (415) 291-7946 and I will be happy to speak with you. Cordially, Rosalind Ng￼
PTA Officers and Chairs for 2013-2014
Our community includes a strong PTA with a terrific spirit of parent participation and volunteerism
Student Support Program s Civic Center Secondary School, an Integrated Behavior Academic School, receives supplemental funding through San Francisco Department of Public Health to provide Aggression Replacement Training for staff to provide this necessary service. The Department of Children, Youth and their Families provides funding for our comprehensive Career Education Program, and Proposition H provides funding for Physical and Arts Education. The Public Utilities Commission provides tutoring services for students on an individualized basis. Plans for onsite City College Emergency Medical Technician classes are currently being explored to provide this exciting service for our students in spring 2008.
Clarendon Elementary School was founded on the principle that parent involvement is critical to the overall success of our school. Clarendon embraces the San Francisco Unified School District’s commitment to engage all families and to support students in their learning, growth, and development. We believe that families are the first and most influential teachers of their children and by engaging parents and families, Clarendon can help families develop the skills they need to be powerful advocates for their children’s educational success.
As early as pre-enrollment school tours, we assure prospective families of their value in the Clarendon parent community. Clarendon begins building parent support as soon as families enroll. During summertime welcome picnics hosted by parent volunteers, new families are introduced to the numerous volunteer opportunities available. The value of volunteerism and support is reinforced at Back-to-School Night in September. Volunteerism and parent support is consistent and thorough all year long. Weekly newsletters encourage and express appreciation for all volunteer activity. As a result, more than 40% of our families feature at least one parent holding a leadership position within school governance, classroom management, and fund-raising and event organization. Nearly 100% of our families demonstrate their commitment to excellence at our school through either financial support or volunteerism during school events, with classroom activities and field trips, school site cleanup, morning drop off and noontime yard duty.
Our Wellness Center provides the following groups: Boys/Girls Groups; Anger Management; Substance Abuse; Grief & Loss.
Our school is leading the way for instructional innovation across all district Middle Schools. Thanks to several generous grants (SIG, QEIA, Promise Neighborhood, SalesForce STEM/iPad) we have been able to take on a number of initiatives in the areas of Balanced Literacy, the Common Core State Standards, Non-Fiction Studies, Response to Instruction and Intervention and Restorative Practices. These will be our areas of focus over the next few years and our efforts remain firmly rooted in these key initiatives. Our vision is truly to become an exemplary school, modeling high levels of implementation in every area of school life for our colleagues across the district, state and country. We welcome any educator or school leader who wants to visit our classrooms and learn from the amazing work of our staff.
