Discover this school The Academy of Arts and Sciences is dedicated to providing each student with a nurturing and individualized learning experience. We are here to promote self-advocacy, foster social awareness, and cultivate creative problem-solving skills. We foster an environment where all students are accepted and nurtured to be who they are, and teachers and staff on campus form a network of caring adults who work to meet the needs of every student so they can be academically and socially successful.  The Academy averages approximately 350 students per year. The Academy’s small school setting allows our teachers to create an effective learning environment by working closely with students and their families in building a strong community.   Within this community, teachers are able to give more individual attention to students and communicate regularly with parents. Our administrators, like our teachers, work to individualize experiences for stakeholders by welcoming parents to drop in to school whenever they like discuss the best way to serve families.  As a small school, between our three administrators we know every student on campus and are very hands on with all student support issues that arise. The Academy offers a rigorous and relevant curriculum to meet the needs of our diverse student body, and students receive rigorous college counseling all four years aided by a full-time academic counselor, a half-time counselor and a full-time college counselor funded by the SF Bar Association’s School-to-College program. We offer an advisory section for each 9th through 12th grade student.  Every Tuesday and Thursday, from 1:10 to 1:40 PM students meet in groups of 18 to 20 with a grade-level teacher advisor.  The objective of this advisory section is to help ensure that each student at the Academy has a meaningful connection with an adult at school, while increasing community, academic success and attendance rates.  Students engage in goal setting, attendance and students planner checks and receive important information. There are monthly grade-level meetings and once a grading period there are all-school meetings. The Academy shares a campus with the School of the Arts, as well as an administration.  Carmelo Sgarlato serves as Principal for both schools, while Greg Markwith and Gary Pacini serves both schools as Assistant Principals.  However, Greg Markwith oversees much of the day-to-day operations of the Academy, as well working with the staff to undertake initiatives to move the school forward. In 2010, the Academy completed its initial Western Association of Schools and Colleges (WASC) visit and received a three-year accreditation – an excellent accomplishment for a new school. Uniforms None After School Programs The Academy of Arts and Sciences runs an Excel afterschool program from 3:30 PM to 6:30 PM which includes academic tutoring, enrichment activities, CAHSEE prep and credit recovery. Special Education Programs Designated Instructional Services Resource Specialist Program Language Programs English Plus Pathway Student Support Programs Students have an advisory period twice a week to help ensure that they are successful both academically and socially.  The school holds weekly SAP (Students Assistance Program) meetings to talk about any students who may be struggling academically or socially to make sure they have access to the necessary services. Athletics Boys Soccer, Girls Soccer, Boys Basketball, Girls Basketball, Girls Volleyball, Badminton, Baseball, Fencing, Track and Field. Arts and Enrichment Academy students are offered arts instruction is the following disciplines: World Music, Visual Arts and Music Appreciation and Production. School Day Academic Enrichment Students have access to Advanced Placement and Honors classes.  Students also have access to the Build San Francisco Institute external link, a half day high school program for students interested in design, construction, engineering and architecture.  Credit recovery opportunities in Math, Science, English, and Social Studies. Additional courses offered through Cyber High external link. College Counseling/Support Programs The Academy of Arts and Sciences features a Wellness Center, two full-time academic counselors and a full-time college counselor. Clubs ASB, Gay-Straight Alliance, Video Game Club, Latino Student Union, Black Student Union, Academy Dance Club, Film Club, Lunchtime Book Club, Envioronmental Leadership Club Additional Info The Academy offers enrichment programs through our work with Community Based Organizations in San Francisco. The afterschool program (AASAP) is a collaboration between Excel, which is San Francisco Unified School District's afterschool provider, SF YMCA Urban Services and the Academy of Arts & Sciences. This program is free and open to any youth attending Academy of Arts & Sciences.  Chablis Scott is the site coordinator and brings over a decade of experience running youth programs.  The program offers: Academic Support, Speech & Debate, Soccer, Visual Arts, and Performing Arts.  Additionally, students may access CAHSEE prep services, credit recovery and grade improvement on Cyber High and mental health services. Build SF – The Architectural Foundation of San Francisco has created the Build San Francisco Institute, a half day high school program for students interested in design, construction, engineering and architecture. Located at 706 Mission Street, the Build San Francisco Institute is a unique community educational partnership, involving AFSF, San Francisco Unified School District and more than two dozen major San Francisco firms. The program combines a rigorous academic program with mentorships in the partner firms, so that students not only gain new knowledge, but also have the immediate experience of applying that knowledge in a real world setting. College Track – College Track has chose The Academy as one of five SFUSD high schools it is currently working with. College Track, founded in 1997 in East Palo Alto, expanded to San Francisco in 2007 and opened a center in the Bayview Hunters Point neighborhood. Beginning with a cohort of fifty freshmen, College Track’s San Francisco center serves students who primarily live in the Bayview Hunters Point, Visitacion Valley/Sunnydale, and Mission/Excelsior neighborhoods, but who attend schools throughout the city. College Track’s San Francisco center is staffed by a three-person team led by Site Director Omar Butler. SF Bar Association (School to College) and Mock Trial - The SF Bar Association partners with the Academy on their School-To-College (STC) program.  The program is a yearlong high school mentoring and tutoring curriculum that inspires underserved and ethnically diverse students to attend college - an option many of these students never knew existed. The STC program provides guidance, insights and opportunity for student in grades 9-12. New this year is the mock trial team, led by Brandon Butler, our School to College advisor.  The mock trial team will partner with law professionals in the City weekly and compete against other schools in the district.   Eco SF –The Academy has a unique opportunity to partner with Eco SF to create an outdoor classroom space, organic garden, native plant nursery, and a potential learning  strand for the Academy’s outdoor education  program. This may include - social justice, sustainable living, and overall permaculture.   Blue Bear School of Music - Blue Bear School of Music's nonprofit mission is to provide superior quality and affordable popular music education to aspiring musicians of all ages and skill levels within a supportive and encouraging community. Blue Bear School of Music is San Francisco's leading destination for aspiring musicians of all ages and all skill levels who want to enjoy learning and playing rock, blues, jazz, folk or pop. Blue Bear, a nonprofit organization founded in 1971, is a place where learning and playing popular music is fun and affordable, where people come together who love music, and where each student's unique talents and goals are recognized and supported. 
The goal of the Wellness Program is to provide support for students so they may succeed academically and be healthy in body, mind and spirit. To accomplish this, the Wellness Program will coordinate and provide non-judgmental, student-focused health, mental health, and substance abuse services and programs for students on campus. Students will be able to participate in a variety of services including mental health and substance abuse counseling, nursing services, case management, support/empowerment groups, conflict mediation, referrals to community agencies and more. The Wellness Center is committed to student’s academic achievement and educational outcomes as well as their physical and emotional well being. The type and content of Wellness services to be provided to youth are CONFIDENTIAL!
Our Mission and Philosophy Alvarado is more than a school; it is a community. We are a school of languages, a school of arts, a school of cultures and social justice. Our mission is to reach and teach the heart and soul of the child through a fertile language experience, math, the arts and sciences.  Academic Program Our teachers follow the curriculum established by the San Francisco Unified School District. This curriculum is based on McGraw Hill for language arts, Everyday Math for mathematics, Macmillan for social studies, and FOSS for science. Faculty and Staff We are extremely fortunate to have an enthusiastic, energetic, and committed group of professionals working at Alvarado. Click here to see a personal statement and bio from our Principal, Robert Broecker.  Staff directory Parental Involvement Without our parents, Alvarado would not be the school it is. We expect and encourage families to be involved in the classroom, on field trips, at events or behind the scenes. The Kindergarten Experience Kindergarteners are gently introduced to the wider school, which, at more than 500 students, can be intimidating.
We Work to Combat Bullying Alvarado does not have more problems with bullying than any other school, but we take the issue seriously when it arises. We host workshops, educate our students, parents and teachers, and provide resources for all. Click on the links below for more information. Anti-Bullying Policy We help children to be included and to feel safe and empowered. We teach children to include others in work and play, and we teach by example: Staff and parents model kindness, respect, empathy and cooperation with students and each other. Please read our school policy on bullying in English or in Spanish. We also have a more easily understood policy that is appropriate for children. For clarity, we also have a flowchart that illustrates how the school responds to reported incidents of bullying. Resources for Parents There are many books available to help parents raise empathetic children or cope with bullying. If you know of a book that is not on this list, please email the title to Morgan Benz. Martial Arts Programs Martial arts are excellent training for the mind and body. Martial arts students gain a sense of security as they learn techniques that can protect them in potentially harmful situations. Frequently Asked Questions What is bullying? Bullying occurs when a student, or group of students, attempts to take power over another student. Often bullying is repeated, where students fall into the roles of bully (the student who is bullying), bully-follower (a student who goes along with the bully), target (the student who is being bullied) and bystander (a student who sees bullying but does nothing to stop it). The main ways in which bullying happens are: Physical bullying: when a student uses physical force to hurt another student by hitting, punching, pushing, pantsing, shoving, kicking, spitting, pinching, getting in their way, or holding them down. It is also bullying to interfere with another student’s belongings, to take or break their possessions, and to demand or steal money. Verbal bullying: when a student directs words at another student with the intention of putting them down or humiliating them. This includes threatening, taunting, intimidating, shouting, insulting, sarcasm, name-calling, teasing, put-downs and ridiculing. It is also verbal bullying when a student uses hostile gestures towards another student, such as making faces, staring, giving the evil eye, and eye rolling. Relational bullying: when a student influences another student’s friendships and relationships through deliberately leaving them out, spreading gossip and rumors about them, whispering, giving them the silent treatment, ostracizing or scape-goating. This also includes writing words or creating cartoons, posters or drawings about another student designed to hurt or humiliate that student. Cyber bullying: using mobile phones, text messages, e-mails, instant messaging, chatrooms, web blogs and social networking sites to bully another student in any of the ways described above. Examples of cyber bullying are sending threatening or insulting messages by phone and e-mail, posting untrue information or embarrassing pictures about another student on message boards, blogs or social networking sites such as MySpace or Facebook, using another student’s email address or IM name to send messages that make the student look bad, creating a web page devoted to putting down another student, forwarding a text-message or e-mail that was meant for your eyes only. Is bullying the same as harassment? Bullying is part of a continuum of aggression and may, at times, amount to harassment. Harassment occurs when a student is the recipient of threatening, disturbing or unwelcome behaviors because of a particular characteristic. See our anti-bullying policy for more details on how harassment is addressed. What do I do if I think my child is being bullied at school? Talk to your child’s teacher first. Classroom teachers often have great insight into the dynamics of children’s relationships. Take the first step by sharing your concerns. Your child’s teacher will talk to you about the best way to address the situation. If you have additional concerns, you can also speak with Mr. Broecker. What do I do if my child is bullying another child? The first step is the same. Talk to your child’s teacher. Classroom teachers and support staff at Alvarado are available to assist all children and their families, regardless of the role they might play in a situation involving bullying. Where can I get more information? Check out our reading list for both kids and parents. There are also a number of useful websites: For parents: http://www.stopbullying.gov A U.S. government managed website with a wealth of information. http://nobully.com The local consultancy that is currently working with Alvarado. http://www.commonsensemedia.org a useful site which gives summaries, age recommendations and reviews for books, movies, video games and more. http://www.staysafeonline.org/in-the-home/protect-your-children Good tips on how to keep your children safe online. For kids: http://kidshealth.org/kid/feeling/school/poll_bullying.html#cat20067 What else can I do? Model compassionate behavior. In order for children to learn kindness and empathy, they need to see it modeled by adults. Make sure your kids get to see you behaving in a compassionate, empathetic manner. A positive social climate is key to a school’s success in combating bullying. Volunteer at recess time. While we have seen great improvement since starting our Playworks program in 2010, the yard remains a potential hotspot for bullying. The more adults that are present, the easier it is to handle minor conflicts as they arise, before they grow into more serious, negative patterns. Limit children’s exposure to media.  Talk to your children about the TV programs they watch and make sure they are age-appropriate. Monitor their online activities and teach kids how to be safe online.
LSP/Social Worker who is supported by Student Counselors and is available to assist identified children (and families) with emotional, developmental and situational issues. Our LSP is also a resource to teachers, staff and families.
AVID is currently in its second year at Aptos Middle School.  There are two classes of the AVID elective, one at 7th grade and one at 8th grade.   In the 7th grade elective class, AVID students are introduced to the 4 components of the AVID curriculum: Writing, Inquiry, Collaboration, and Reading.  A major emphasis in the 7th grade is for students to develop inquiry and collaboration skills as students work with college students during tutorials sessions. In the 8th grade elective class, AVID students continue to develop their WICR strategies needed for high school and college, but further look at the importance of choosing the right high school and the requirements needed to apply to a college / university. Both elective classes support students in their core classes of Math, English/Language Arts, Social Studies, and Science through tutorials and various in class assignments.  The AVID elective class is not a remedial or intervention class.  The curriculum is rigorous and pushes students to become their own advocates in an academic setting to hone their skills in their other classes. Highlights: * Field Trips - Stanford and San Francisco State University; Washington HS and Lincoln HS; Day at Law School (UC Hastings) * Guest Speakers on Fridays * College mentors and tutors leading tutorials twice a week
RESPONSE TO INSTRUCTION & INTERVENTION (RTI^2) PHILOSOPHY & DEFINTION RtI2 is a systematic, data-driven approach to instruction that benefits every student.  California’s RtI2 framework, supported by national research and in accordance1 with1federal law, emphasizes effective instruction and earlier intervention for students experiencing difficulty learning to1 ensure that they are not misdiagnosed or over1identified for1 special education services due to lack of appropriate1 instruction.  For more information on RtI2, please visit the California Department of Education website at1 http://www.cde.ca.gov/ci/cr/ri/index.asp.
What is the Lowell Wellness Program? The Lowell Wellness Program coordinates and provides health, mental health and substance abuse services and programs for Lowell students on campus. What kinds of issues does Wellness address? Wellness addresses a wide variety of issues such as: ∗ Violence and Abuse ∗ Stress/Worry ∗ Depression & Suicide ∗ Sexual Orientation/Gender Questions ∗ Resource & Referral ∗ Sexual Harassment Issues ∗ Coping with Academic Stress ∗ Chronic Illness ∗ Drug & Alcohol Abuse ∗ Family Issues ∗ Defiant , Impulsive, or Acting Out Behaviors ∗ Sexual Health ∗ Peer Relationships ∗ Pregnancy & Birth Control ∗ Cultural Adjustment & Identity Issues ∗ Smoking Cessation  What types of services are provided for students? Students can participate in a variety of services including  mental health and substance abuse counseling, nursing services, case management, support/empowerment groups, conflict mediation, referrals to community agencies and more. The type and content of Wellness services provided to youth are CONFIDENTIAL! How are students referred to the Lowell Wellness Program? Students are referred by school administrators, teachers and counselors by completing a Wellness Referral Form. Parents/ Guardians can refer students by stopping by the Wellness Center in Bungalow T14, calling 415/242-2575 or emailing chaoc@sfusd.edu. Students can also self-refer in the Wellness Program Drop-In Center during their free mods and after school. * If you have a crisis situation, do not complete a referral form – contact a Wellness Program provider immediately for support! Who is on the Wellness Team? *Carol Chao Herring, Wellness Coordinator, T14 (x3020) *Kin Leung, RAMS therapist, T14 (x3060) *Lauren Reyes, Community Health Outreach Worker, T14 (x3030) *Loong Kwok, RAMS therapist, T14 *Maryann Rainey, Wellness Nurse, Rm 129 (x3173) *Natasha Jaipaul & Susan Matsumura, SIT Interns, T14 * In addition to the above staff, we coordinate counselors, case managers, group facilitators, and interns, from community based organizations (CBOs) who provide support services for students at Lowell. How does Wellness address school wide health and mental health issues? The Wellness Program coordinates monthly health awareness events, school wide education and prevention activities focusing on a variety of topics such as substance use, HIV/AIDS, violence prevention, etc. We also offer classroom presentations and specialized groups - let us know if you would like us to come to your classroom to present about health and/or mental health topics! When is the Wellness Program open? The Wellness Program is open M-F from 8:30am to 4pm. Students are welcome at the Wellness Center during free mods and by appointment. Student Drop-In Hours are in T14 for counseling services or Room 129 for nursing services. Additional drop-in hours are held during 5th Block on Thursdays and 4th Block on Fridays in Room 106. How often will students miss classes to utilize Wellness services? Students usually participate in Wellness Program services one hour a week. Wellness Program providers schedule appointments during free mods. If no free mods are available, providers work with teachers to alternate class periods for appointments and/or group sessions if needed so that students do not miss the same class weekly. If a student is falling behind, please call Carol (x3020) or Lauren (x3030). Teachers always have the right to say NO. Wellness is committed to student’s academic achievement and educational outcomes. Can parents use Wellness services? Although Wellness services are funded for youth, we also have health and mental health resources available for families! If you would like support please come talk to us – we are here for you!
