Aptos encourages students to achieve at the highest levels, both academically and socially. At Aptos, students feel comfortable, nurtured, and respected. They are actively and positively engaged in a safe environment. We encourage students to develop a sense of responsibility, discipline, and self-esteem. The comprehensive academic program includes General Education classes, intensive English classes for English Language Learners, Special Education programs and Gifted and Talented Education (GATE) and honors classes. Students have the opportunity to participate in elective classes that engage their creativity, encourage development of multiple intelligences, and deliver opportunities for leadership. Students can select interests such as drama, computers, arts, journalism, chorus, orchestra, band, and jazz band. The curriculum is balanced by our physical education and student support program s. Some of our other programs include student government, stage crew, Journalism, Beta Club Honor Society, Guitar Club, and Italian Club.
Student Support Program s Student assistant program (SAP) meets weekly to identify students who have additional needs. SSTs and IEPs held as needed. Two full-time counselors, a full-time nurse and a full-time LSP help to coordinate wrap around services. Partnerships with Institute provide mental health services. Intervention and tutoring for both reading and math is also available.
CARE Team, which encompasses the Student Assistance Program (SAP), Student Success Team (SST), and Student Attendance Review Team (SART). School Social Worker (formerly known as "Learning Support Provider"). Playworks Program (recess and structured play program). SOMA Family Resource Network. YMCA Embarcadero Student Counseling.￼Literacy Intervention Through Performing Arts Intervention Groups. Literacy Intervention Groups. After-schoo
SFUSD’s High School Wellness Center s will be hosting “Healthcare Sign Up” events from January 22 through Jan 30, where staff from Wellness Centers and the Department of Public Health will offer assistance to parents in accessing
Parent Involvement Dear Parents, As President of the School Site Council, I would like to personally invite you to join us for our monthly meetings. The meetings are held in the school library on the last Monday of each month at 3:45. Meetings generally finish by 4:30. Topics covered by this Parent Teacher organization include our Children's Garden, the Healthy Kid's Program, the Food Bank Donations to our school, fundraising possibilities, budgets, as well as alternatives for before school and afterschool care. In addition to joining the School Site Council, there are also volunteering opportunities throughout the school. We encourage parents and grandparents to communicate with the teachers, regarding chaperoning on field trips and participating in group activities. Classroom readers are welcome in the lower grades. The Jewish Coalition of Literacy also trains volunteers to read to students throughout the day. If you are crafty, participation in an art activity would be greatly appreciated, especially during the holidays. Once a month, the Chinatown YMCA sponsors a Family Night. This is open to all families and includes a light dinner and an activity the family will participate in together. It is a great way to spend quality time together and meet other families attending JYC Elementary School. If you have any questions or concerns, feel free to contact me through school at (415) 291-7946 and I will be happy to speak with you. Cordially, Rosalind Ng￼
PTA Officers and Chairs for 2013-2014
Our community includes a strong PTA with a terrific spirit of parent participation and volunteerism
Student Support Program s Civic Center Secondary School, an Integrated Behavior Academic School, receives supplemental funding through San Francisco Department of Public Health to provide Aggression Replacement Training for staff to provide this necessary service. The Department of Children, Youth and their Families provides funding for our comprehensive Career Education Program, and Proposition H provides funding for Physical and Arts Education. The Public Utilities Commission provides tutoring services for students on an individualized basis. Plans for onsite City College Emergency Medical Technician classes are currently being explored to provide this exciting service for our students in spring 2008.
Clarendon Elementary School was founded on the principle that parent involvement is critical to the overall success of our school. Clarendon embraces the San Francisco Unified School District’s commitment to engage all families and to support students in their learning, growth, and development. We believe that families are the first and most influential teachers of their children and by engaging parents and families, Clarendon can help families develop the skills they need to be powerful advocates for their children’s educational success.
As early as pre-enrollment school tours, we assure prospective families of their value in the Clarendon parent community. Clarendon begins building parent support as soon as families enroll. During summertime welcome picnics hosted by parent volunteers, new families are introduced to the numerous volunteer opportunities available. The value of volunteerism and support is reinforced at Back-to-School Night in September. Volunteerism and parent support is consistent and thorough all year long. Weekly newsletters encourage and express appreciation for all volunteer activity. As a result, more than 40% of our families feature at least one parent holding a leadership position within school governance, classroom management, and fund-raising and event organization. Nearly 100% of our families demonstrate their commitment to excellence at our school through either financial support or volunteerism during school events, with classroom activities and field trips, school site cleanup, morning drop off and noontime yard duty.
Our Wellness Center provides the following groups: Boys/Girls Groups; Anger Management; Substance Abuse; Grief & Loss.
Our school is leading the way for instructional innovation across all district Middle Schools. Thanks to several generous grants (SIG, QEIA, Promise Neighborhood, SalesForce STEM/iPad) we have been able to take on a number of initiatives in the areas of Balanced Literacy, the Common Core State Standards, Non-Fiction Studies, Response to Instruction and Intervention and Restorative Practices. These will be our areas of focus over the next few years and our efforts remain firmly rooted in these key initiatives. Our vision is truly to become an exemplary school, modeling high levels of implementation in every area of school life for our colleagues across the district, state and country. We welcome any educator or school leader who wants to visit our classrooms and learn from the amazing work of our staff.
